So, today we'll talk about the NYPD motor vehicle collisions dataset.

The Agenda will be 
	the data set
	Some goals, what do we want to investigate
	Which elements are needed and how we will implement it
	And finally a bit about preliminara data analysis

So the data set
	It is motor vehicle collisions in New York Ciry
	Why do we look at this? 
		To see the development of collisions over the years
		Hopefully find some interesting patterns
To the right we see a beautifull heat map of the total incidents in New York city, where it is possible to spot the characteristic block structure 

A quick walkthrough of the data
	The data is freely avaliable
	It is large, around 1 million rows and 29 columns where around eighthundred thousand includes geodata.
	It is available in several formats
	and the amount of columns gives a lot of prediction possibilities
	It ranges from mid 2012 to whenever the dataset is downloaded, updated daily

Here we have all the attributes, which includes
	date
	time
	geo location
	and very specific incident properties

So what are our goals?
	Does the time of day correlate with the amount of incidents?
		What about injuries and kills?
		What are the causes?
	What is the development over the years? Has it increased or decreased? Has some increased while others decreased and so on.
 	
To investigate this we will look at some distributions	
	We see the total amount of incidents peaks around 8 in the morning and 4 in the evening during rush hour
	The same happens for the amount of injuries, but interesting the amount of death does not follow the exact pattern.
	Around 4 in the morning there is a big peak which could be interesting to look at.
	Last we see the total amount of incidents for each year, where is should be noted that it only contains half of 2012 and one fourth of 2017.
	Interestlingly it increases over the years.

Other goals could be causes of traffic incident and is it dangerous to bike or walk in specific places

These are all the causes, excluding unspecified, where we see the majority is Driver inattention/distraction. 
	Maybe it changes for different discricts?

So how will we achiev the goals?
	We will use decision trees to classify vehicle types
	We will use K-means to determine hotspots in traffic
	And K nearest neighbors to detemine if some spots are more dangerous to bike in than walking and vice versa
	And for the website we will use D3 to give grafic visulizations.

For implementation we will mostly use premade libraries for python, e.i. 
	SK-learn
	Numpy
	and Geoplotlib

and as mentioned before also D3 and CSS to make interractive visulizations on a website.
	






	



	





